---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: My Progress in Programming
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2022-04-4
labels:
  - WODs
  - Assignments
  - Progress
---

## My programming skills have greatly improved in the following ways:

My understanding of systems and how programs function has improved dramatically. When I first came into this course, I had virtually no programming knowledge and now I am close to building a fulling functioning e-commerce website. By understanding the basics of functions, data types, and algorithims, I am able to fill in the blanks with programming skills I am still developing and learn by doing. 

## I need to work on the following to improve my programming skills:

I need to work on my attention to detail and commenting. A lot of the time my code gets messy and hard to understand if I am not explaining it to the person trying to understand. If I want to be able to contribute to large projects, I am going to have to improve my commenting skills so others can figure out what I am trying to do without asking me directly.

## I have learned a lot from doing WODs and I can do them without copying the screencast:

I believe that the WODs are beneficial to an extent. I think that the time constraints are almost always resonable, but sometimes I get hung up on one concept which forces me to restart in order to get the Rx grade. This, however, is likely beneficial as it offers me the opportunity to focus on the skills or knowledge that I am getting hung up on and actually comprehend what I am trying to get the program to do. 

## The labs have help me learn and I am able to complete them with confidence:

Most of the time I can complete the labs with confidence, however, some of the lab's instructions are confusing and often leave me having to try different things to get the intended outcome. As a result, sometimes I do not think I am doing it the way my instructor would do it, but in the end it works which is what matters in the end. 

## I learned a lot from my experience doing Assignment 1 and feel ready to work on Assignment 2:

I liked working on Assignment 1 more than the labs and WODs because I was able to see a practical applicaiton of what we are learning. Unlike the labs, we are creating a fully functioning website, not just bits and pieces. Unlike the WODs, the assignments are structured like projects that give us the time to try to figure out the problems on our own and gain competence. 

## I think the class can be improved to help my learning in the following ways:

I think the course can be improved into more projects and less WODs. Through the completion of projects, students would not only improve their skills through practice, but would also develop a portfolio that they could show potential employers. 

## What helps me the most in class are (WODs, Labs, class website, screencasts, readings, quizzes, one on one help, working with classmates, etc.):

What helps me most in learning the skills to suceed in the course is liekely the Labs and Assignments. I think that these activities provide the best opportunity to put the concepts to work and gain proficiency in programming. 