---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: Reflecting on Assignment 2
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2022-04-04
labels:
  - Assignments
  - Progress
---

## Provide a brief introduction to the assignment along with a link to this page for further details

In assignemnt 2, I was assigned to implement a registration and login process for an e-commerce store. In doing so, I had to pass product and quantity data through the login so the user was eventually displayed an invoice. 

## What did you learn from this assignment?

This assignment pushed me a lot to learn, problem solve, and figure out solutions using the resources at my disposal. I had to become a lot more comfortable with data validation and routing as I had to implement a lot more than previously. This assignment also helped me organize my code better in a way that I can understand a little bit easier than if code was put in at random. 

## Did you work with a partner? Assign an estimated percentage on the amount each team member contributed to the assignment (including yourself).

I did not work with a partner.

## How did you get help when you needed it? What did you need help with?

I was having a lot of trouble figuring out how to pass the quantity and product data through the login/register part of the site and to the invoice. I was able to watch some tutorials on YouTube, look through Stack Overflow questions, and email my instructor to fix the issue. A lot of the times when I reach out I do not think I can explain my question well enough to get a good response, but I am working on that.

## How was developing this assignment different than assignment #1?

Developing assignment 2 was different than assignment 1 as it required a lot more server-side programming with the implementation of user data, a log-in, and a register process. The assignment made me work harder to understand how express and server-side programming functions. 

## Estimate the % of time you spent (a) thinking about how to do something, (b) writing code (but do not include testing, (c) testing and debugging

I would estimate my time as the following: (A) 20%, (B) 45%, (C) 35%.

## Describe what worked well with this project? What did not work well?

What worked well during this project was definitely making small adjustments to my code and then testing them or debugging to make sure that it will function properly. A lot of the times when I tried to implement a big change, I would end up breaking the entire program and spending more time debugging the problem than if I had just taken it slow.

## If you could go back in time and do things differently, what would you do differently?

If I could go back and do things differently, I would have tried to reach out and ask for help earlier as it would have probably kept me on the right path and kept me from trying to solve the problem with an obscure solution that I found on the internet that will end up taking a lot of effort to implement. 